README.md, before:

# libgenaro-java (SHIL)

Asynchronous Java library and CLI for encrypted file transfer on the Genaro network. It's developed on Java 8, but should be able to run on latest android. Compatible with [libgenaro](https://github.com/GenaroNetwork/libgenaro).

## Feature Finished

- Load wallet from json file with password
- Use wallet to sign request for user authentication
- Delete bucket/rename bucket/list buckets/list files/delete file/upload file/download file
- Asynchronous I/O with concurrent peer-to-peer network requests for shards
- File encryption with AES-256-CTR
- File name and bucket name encryption with AES-256-GCM
- Asynchronous progress updates
- Retry several times when upload/download is failed
- Seed based file encryption key for portability between devices
- File integrity and authenticity verified with HMAC-SHA512
- Erasure encoding with reed solomon for data reliability
- Exchange report with bridge
- Command line interface

## Feature Todo

- File encryption key be provided to decrypt encrypted file
- String literal be encrypted with AES-256-CTR and directly stored to a bucket

## Issues

- Upload or download file of large size(maybe 500mb or even smaller) may cause an OutOfMemoryError

## 3rd party dependencies

- [Bouncy Castle](https://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html) for crypto algorithms.
- [dnsjava](http://www.xbill.org/dnsjava) for base16 encoding.
- [web3j](https://web3j.io) for wallet managment, BIP39 and Interaction with blockchain.
- [JavaReedSolomon](https://github.com/Backblaze/JavaReedSolomon) for reed solomon algorithm.
- [jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson) for JSON parse/compose.
- [okhttp3](https://github.com/square/okhttp) as HTTP client.
- [java-getopt](https://www.urbanophile.com/arenn/hacking/download.html) a Java command line option parser that is compatible with GNU getopt.
- [guava](https://github.com/google/guava) and [apache.commons](https://commons.apache.org) as utility.
- [log4j](https://logging.apache.org/log4j) for logging.
- [testng](https://testng.org/doc/index.html) for testing.
- [maven](https://maven.apache.org/) for dependency managment.

## Package

### Gradle

on Linux/Mac:

```shell
./gradlew build
```

on Windows:

```cmd
gradlew build
```

or if you want to use your local gardle:

```shell
gradle build
```

### Maven

```shell
mvn clean package
```

or if you don't want to run the tests:

```shell
mvn clean package -Dmaven.test.skip=true
```

PS: Will not package org.bouncycastle for signature issue.

## Used as 3rd party package

Add Genaro package(genaro-sdk-x.xx.jar) to your classpath, and make sure package org.bouncycastle(bcprov-jdk15on-x.xx.jar) is in the same directory with Genaro package.

## Example Usage

Initialize:

```java
String bridgeUrl = "http://47.100.33.60:8080";
String V3JSON = "{ \"address\": \"aaad65391d2d2eafda9b2732000001d52a6a3dc8\",
        \"crypto\": { \"cipher\": \"aes-128-ctr\",
        \"ciphertext\": \"e968751f3d60827b6e6000006c024ecc82f33a6c55428be33249c83edba444ca\",
        \"cipherparams\": { \"iv\": \"e80d9ec9b00000a143c756ec78066ad9\" }, \"kdf\": \"scrypt\",
        \"kdfparams\": { \"dklen\": 32, \"n\": 262144, \"p\": 1, \"r\": 8, \"salt\":
        \"ea7cb2b004db67d000003790caced7a96b636762f280b243e794fb5bef8ef74b\" },
        \"mac\": \"ceb3789e77be8f2a7ab4d000001b54e048ad3f5b080b96e07759de7442e050d2\" },
        \"id\": \"e28f31b4-1f43-428b-9b12-ab58000004b1\", \"version\": 3 }";
String passwd = "xxxxxx";
Genaro api;
try {
    api = new Genaro(bridgeUrl, V3JSON, passwd);
} catch (Exception e) {
    return;
}
```

List buckets:

```java
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.getBuckets(new GetBucketsCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish(Bucket[] buckets) { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
});

// getBuckets is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Delete bucket:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.deleteBucket(bucketId, new DeleteBucketCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}));

// deleteBucket is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Rename bucket:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
String newName = "abc";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.renameBucket(bucketId, newName, new RenameBucketCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}

// renameBucket is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

List files:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.listFiles(bucketId, new ListFilesCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish(GenaroFile[] files) { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}

// listFiles is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Delete file:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
String fileId = "5c0e1289bbdd6f2d157dd8b2";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.deleteFile(bucketId, fileId, new DeleteFileCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}

// deleteFile is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Upload file:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf4ea7991d267f4eb53b4";
String filePath = "xxxxxx";
String fileName = "abc.txt";
boolean rs = false;
Uploader uploader = api.storeFile(rs, filePath, fileName, bucketId, new StoreFileCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onBegin(long fileSize) { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
    @Override
    public void onFinish(String fileId) { }
    @Override
    public void onProgress(float progress) { }
});

// storeFile is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call uploader.join()
// if you want to cancel it, call uploader.cancel()
```

Download file:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf4ea7991d267f4eb53b4";
String fileId = "5c0103fd5a158a5612e67461";
String filePath = "xxxxxx";
Downloader downloader = api.resolveFile(bucketId, fileId, filePath, new ResolveFileCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onBegin() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onProgress(float progress) { }
});

// resolveFile is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call downloader.join()
// if you want to cancel it, call downloader.cancel()
```

Commit message:

solve OutOfMemoryError when upload large file, and will not use RS

README.md, after:

# libgenaro-java (SHIL)

Asynchronous Java library and CLI for encrypted file transfer on the Genaro network. It's developed on Java 8, but should be able to run on latest android. Compatible with [libgenaro](https://github.com/GenaroNetwork/libgenaro).

## Feature Finished

- Load wallet from json file with password
- Use wallet to sign request for user authentication
- Delete bucket/rename bucket/list buckets/list files/delete file/upload file/download file
- Asynchronous I/O with concurrent peer-to-peer network requests for shards
- File encryption with AES-256-CTR
- File name and bucket name encryption with AES-256-GCM
- Asynchronous progress updates
- Retry several times when upload/download is failed
- Seed based file encryption key for portability between devices
- File integrity and authenticity verified with HMAC-SHA512
- Erasure encoding with reed solomon for data reliability
- Exchange report with bridge
- Command line interface

## Feature Todo

- File encryption key be provided to decrypt encrypted file
- String literal be encrypted with AES-256-CTR and directly stored to a bucket

## Issues

- Upload or download file of large size(>512MB) will not use Reed-Solomon algorithm, or it will cause an OutOfMemoryError

## 3rd party dependencies

- [Bouncy Castle](https://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html) for crypto algorithms.
- [dnsjava](http://www.xbill.org/dnsjava) for base16 encoding.
- [web3j](https://web3j.io) for wallet managment, BIP39 and Interaction with blockchain.
- [JavaReedSolomon](https://github.com/Backblaze/JavaReedSolomon) for reed solomon algorithm.
- [jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson) for JSON parse/compose.
- [okhttp3](https://github.com/square/okhttp) as HTTP client.
- [java-getopt](https://www.urbanophile.com/arenn/hacking/download.html) a Java command line option parser that is compatible with GNU getopt.
- [guava](https://github.com/google/guava) and [apache.commons](https://commons.apache.org) as utility.
- [log4j](https://logging.apache.org/log4j) for logging.
- [testng](https://testng.org/doc/index.html) for testing.
- [maven](https://maven.apache.org/) for dependency managment.

## Package

### Gradle

on Linux/Mac:

```shell
./gradlew build
```

on Windows:

```cmd
gradlew build
```

or if you want to use your local gardle:

```shell
gradle build
```

### Maven

```shell
mvn clean package
```

or if you don't want to run the tests:

```shell
mvn clean package -Dmaven.test.skip=true
```

PS: Will not package org.bouncycastle for signature issue.

## Used as 3rd party package

Add Genaro package(genaro-sdk-x.xx.jar) to your classpath, and make sure package org.bouncycastle(bcprov-jdk15on-x.xx.jar) is in the same directory with Genaro package.

## Example Usage

Initialize:

```java
String bridgeUrl = "http://47.100.33.60:8080";
String V3JSON = "{ \"address\": \"aaad65391d2d2eafda9b2732000001d52a6a3dc8\",
        \"crypto\": { \"cipher\": \"aes-128-ctr\",
        \"ciphertext\": \"e968751f3d60827b6e6000006c024ecc82f33a6c55428be33249c83edba444ca\",
        \"cipherparams\": { \"iv\": \"e80d9ec9b00000a143c756ec78066ad9\" }, \"kdf\": \"scrypt\",
        \"kdfparams\": { \"dklen\": 32, \"n\": 262144, \"p\": 1, \"r\": 8, \"salt\":
        \"ea7cb2b004db67d000003790caced7a96b636762f280b243e794fb5bef8ef74b\" },
        \"mac\": \"ceb3789e77be8f2a7ab4d000001b54e048ad3f5b080b96e07759de7442e050d2\" },
        \"id\": \"e28f31b4-1f43-428b-9b12-ab58000004b1\", \"version\": 3 }";
String passwd = "xxxxxx";
Genaro api;
try {
    api = new Genaro(bridgeUrl, V3JSON, passwd);
} catch (Exception e) {
    return;
}
```

List buckets:

```java
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.getBuckets(new GetBucketsCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish(Bucket[] buckets) { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
});

// getBuckets is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Delete bucket:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.deleteBucket(bucketId, new DeleteBucketCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}));

// deleteBucket is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Rename bucket:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
String newName = "abc";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.renameBucket(bucketId, newName, new RenameBucketCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}

// renameBucket is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

List files:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.listFiles(bucketId, new ListFilesCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish(GenaroFile[] files) { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}

// listFiles is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Delete file:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf77cea9b6322c5abd929";
String fileId = "5c0e1289bbdd6f2d157dd8b2";
CompletableFuture<Void> fu = api.deleteFile(bucketId, fileId, new DeleteFileCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
}

// deleteFile is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call fu.join()
```

Upload file:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf4ea7991d267f4eb53b4";
String filePath = "xxxxxx";
String fileName = "abc.txt";
boolean rs = false;
Uploader uploader = api.storeFile(rs, filePath, fileName, bucketId, new StoreFileCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onBegin(long fileSize) { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
    @Override
    public void onFinish(String fileId) { }
    @Override
    public void onProgress(float progress) { }
});

// storeFile is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call uploader.join()
// if you want to cancel it, call uploader.cancel()
```

Download file:

```java
String bucketId = "5bfcf4ea7991d267f4eb53b4";
String fileId = "5c0103fd5a158a5612e67461";
String filePath = "xxxxxx";
Downloader downloader = api.resolveFile(bucketId, fileId, filePath, new ResolveFileCallback() {
    @Override
    public void onBegin() { }
    @Override
    public void onFail(String error) { }
    @Override
    public void onFinish() { }
    @Override
    public void onProgress(float progress) { }
});

// resolveFile is Non-Blocking, if you want to wait until it is finished, call downloader.join()
// if you want to cancel it, call downloader.cancel()
```
